# WorldCup2022_Prediction_Game
World Cup 2022 prediction game built in Excel to play with friends and/or colleagues.

## Info:
Players must predict who what teams will qualify 1st and 2nd in their respective groups, predict the winners of the subsequent Round of 16 games, Quarter Finals, Semi Finals, Third place play off and Final. There are also some random predictions thrown in such as Golden boot, Player of the tournament, etc.

Download both files to play. 
WorldCupPredictions file is for the host/admin use. Here you will find the Predictions, Participants, Scoring and Leaderboard sheets.
WorldCupPredctions_PlayerPredictions should be sent around to those playing. They do not need access to the main file. This file only contains the Predictions sheet.

All cells are editable so:
1) Be careful not to accidentally change any equations.
2) If you want to change prediciton items or scoring points you can do so, just ensure to edit the scoring information accordingly before sending to your players.

### Predictions
Empty predictions sheet. Once a player fills in the prediciton sheet, an autogenerated table is filled in just to the side for the admin to copy and paste into the Participants sheet.
Scoring table here is just for show (albeit identical to the real one). The scoring table in the Scoring sheet is the real one used for calculating player scores in the Leaderboard table. 

### Participants
Set up for 12 players. Admin should copy and paste player predictions into this sheet, inline with where the empty skeleton table is for each player.

### Scoring
Sheet for admin to enter in the real results i.e. what teams qualify from each group 1st and 2nd, win their Round of 16 match, etc.
Scoring table here is used for calculations in leaderboard table.

### Leaderboard
Uses player predicitons in Participants sheet, and actual results and scoring table in Scoring sheet to calculate player scores. Table does not auto-sort based on scores, instead just lists players based on order in Participants sheet.
